---
layout: post
title: Week 2 Code of Conduct
---

## What is the Code of Conduct

What is the Code of Conduct in open source projects? Why is it necessary? The Code of Conduct is a document that outlines and lists the expectations set on contributing to a project when it comes to interacting with the community. Generally, the Code of conduct lays out the foundation for an accepting, welcoming, and cooperative community in a project

A code of conduct is can be benefitial to a project, becuase it lays out explicit and concrete guidelines for expected behavior. Some might say that the code of conduct is unneccessary and redundant, but it clarifies what is acceptible behavior, and potential punishments for violating those rules. While Code of Conducts may differ amongst projects, the core values mantaining a respectful community are the same

## My Thoughts on the Code of Conduct

I beleive the Code of Conduct is an important part of any project, although it can often be overlooked or ignored. The Code 
<!--more-->
of Conduct reinsures me that the project I am working on or am interested in working on has solid values, and welcoming and accepting of me. However, if a project does not have a Code of Conduct, that does not mean I will rule out any consideration for working on a project. You can still glimpse at the enviorment of the contributers by looking over comments and interations in the pull requests or elsewhere.

Do I think there is a realistic way of enforcing rules listed in the Code of Conduct? I believe that it is certianly feasible. If you look at the [Langchain Code of Conduct](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain?tab=coc-ov-file), multiple violations can be enforced with warnings, and even a ban on contributing to the project in the future. This requires enforcment by moderators, but it is certianly possible to do so.
