---
layout: post
title: Week 11 
---

## Videos in Class

One thing I took away from the videos is the amount of work and effort to integrate with open source technologies is a lot more than just being able to use the code. Convincing corporate leadership to invest in something that is completely public, finding the right projects and use cases to use open source with, educating and training employees to best deal with open source projects, are all hurdles that are not easy to overcome, and can be very costly although open-source is "free". Open source is relativly new, and change can be hard, especially when dealing with uncertianties such as the future maintenance of the project, or whether it aligns with your companies vision or goals. All of these would sound super discouraging to me personally before I watched these videos, and I would lean towards developing in house, for more control. However, I failed to realise the benefits of open source. Although you need to pay money for the work to integrate with open source, in turn, you are also getting a product that has already been worked on by many qualified and experienced engineers around the world, instead of starting from scratch.

I also viewed open source before this class as projects run by hobbyists, and more of a unprofessional project that people do for fun. However, in the videos, they really expanded my viewpoint. A lot of these big open source projects are run very organized and efficiently. They have weekly to yearly meetings, foundations with people whose job is to manage the open source project and determine the direction. Even the project we chose for our group, pandas, have monthly meetings to discuss the direction they want to go in, and I attended one of those meetings, and it was handled very professionally, which was cool to see. 

<!-- more -->


## Project updates

At the moment, I am working on an issue with the plotting functionality in pandas. At first, I was at a road block, because the code base seems very daunting, and I did not know where to start. Issues were hard to find, or very unclear or uncertian if it was a valid issue to work on. However, once I sat down and spent time finding a proper issue, and looking through online resources, I had a clearer idea of where to look. The hardest challenge is finding an issue to work on. Once you find an issue, there are actually videos on youtube that walk you through how to contribute to pandas, so I have been refering to those to help me figure out my next steps.