---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

## Class Discussion

This weeks class discussions were very interesting in the sense that it was purely conducted by the students. A lot of projects are what you would expect, where people contribute data, or some sort of knowhow or knowledge. Because all of these projects were similar in that aspect, it was not that surprising to me. However, some of these open source projects are very interesting, and I did not realise that there would be a market or community for it. Stuff like Cola, sewing, free beer, all seem like very niche with very small audiences, so I wonder how active the community is.

Hearing about all these different and unique open source things reminds me a lot of Reddit. Reddit has many different sub-reddits for everything and niche topics, and each sub-reddit has its own community that 'contribute' posts, and moderators volunteer to moderate these communities, much like open source. Last weeks discussion really helped me draw that connection, and I would love to explore that connection a little more. Can these communities be considered some sort of open source?
<!-- more -->

## Project updates

For our project, we have started making our presentation. Right now we have a document with talking points that we are updating, and our draft of our slides is going well. The contributions still remain with the docstring issues, which is nothing flashy but still something. I am excited to present next week, but I do wish that there was more time to work on our project contributions.
